# Construct Kinetic Hamiltonian (continuum version, single-particle)
You will be instructed to describe the kinetic term of Hamiltonian in ABC trilayer graphene in the real space in the second-quantized form.   
The degrees of freedom of the system are: six sublattice sites labeled as A, B, A', B', A'', B''.  
Express the Kinetic Hamiltonian H_0 using variables γ_0, γ_1, γ_2, γ_3, γ_N, f which are only on the diagonal terms, and arrange the basis in the order of A, B, A', B', A'', B''. [Note that the sublattice degrees of freedom is suppressed for now and will be stated later]

Use the following conventions for the symbols:  
f(k) = e^(i k_y a / sqrt(3)) * (1 + 2 e^(-i 3 k_{y} a / 2sqrt(3)) * cos(k_x a / 2)), where a = 2.46 Å.  
γ_0 = 3.12 eV, γ_1 = 0.377 eV, γ_2 = 0.01 eV, γ_3 = 0.3 eV.  
γ_N = γ_N^0 * exp(- |k - K'| / k_r), where k_r = γ_1 / ħυ_F = 0.0573 Å^-1.

# Define each term in Kinetic Hamiltonian (continuum version)
Template:
 You will be instructed to construct each term, namely {H}_0.  
For all energy dispersions, {H}_0, it characterizes the {Dirac} dispersion for {electrons}.   
[In addition, a shift of {k_r} in the momentum {k} for {f(k)}, respectively.]  
You should follow the EXAMPLE below to obtain the correct energy dispersion, select the correct EXAMPLE by noticing the type of dispersion.  
Finally, in the real space, the momentum ${k}=-i \partial_{r}$. You should keep the form of ${k}$ in the Hamiltonian for short notations but should remember ${k}$ is an operator.  
Return the expression for {H}_0 in the Kinetic Hamiltonian, and substitute it into the Kinetic Hamiltonian {H}_0.  

Use the following conventions for the symbols (You should also obey the conventions in all my previous prompts if you encounter undefined symbols. If you find it is never defined or has conflicts in the conventions, you should stop and let me know):  
{f\left( {\bf k} \right) &=&    e^{ i k_y a / \sqrt{3} } \left( 1 + 2 e^{-i 3 k_{y} a / 2\sqrt{3}}  
                                       \cos \left(  \frac{k_x a}{2} \right)    \right)  
\end{eqnarray}
with $a = 2.46 \AA$ using the same triangular lattice vector convention as in Ref. [\onlinecite{dirachf,jeilbilayer}].
The global minus sign in front of the Hamiltonian means that $\pi$-bonding bands 
have lower energy than anti-bonding bands when the $\gamma$ parameters are positive.  
In most of our calculations we have used 
graphite hopping parameter values which are similar to those in Ref. [\onlinecite{partoens}] :
$\gamma_0 = 3.12$ eV, $\gamma_1 = 0.377$ eV,  $\gamma_2 = 0.01$ eV,  $\gamma_3 = 0.3$ eV.
We specifically address the importance of the signs of the remote $\gamma_2$ and 
$\gamma_3$ hopping parameters.  
The near-neighbor intralayer and interlayer hopping processes $\gamma_0$ and $\gamma_1$ 
are responsible for broad features of the band structure, while the 
$\gamma_2$ and $\gamma_3$ parameters have their 
main impact close to the band-crossing points.  
This model qualitatively reproduces the {\em ab initio} band structure in Ref. [\onlinecite{latil}],
in particular capturing the orientation of the triangle formed by the three 
band-crossing points close to the Brillouin-zone corner.
We have ignored the ABC trilayer 
 $\gamma_4$ and $\gamma_5$ processes that break particle-hole symmetry, 
and other small onsite terms that are often introduced in models of graphite, because 
they do not visibly alter the low energy features of the bands in ABC trilayer graphene.

Using a model similar to that used previously for bilayer graphene,\cite{youngwoo,kruczynski}. 
we have also examined the influence of a term in the Hamiltonian that is intended to capture the 
influence on low-energy states of an interlayer relative-translation strain.  
We write 
$\gamma_N = \gamma_N^{0} \exp(- \left| {\bf k} - {\bf K}^{(\prime)} \right| / k_r)$, 
introducing a damping factor which makes the term small
away from the Brillouin-zone corners, where this form
for the strain Hamiltonian becomes inaccurate, by setting  
$k_r = \gamma_1 / \hbar \upsilon_F = 0.0573 \AA^{-1}$.}

# Convert from single-particle to second-quantized form, return in matrix
You will be instructed to construct the second quantized form of the total noninteracting Hamiltonian in the momentum space.  
The noninteracting Hamiltonian in the momentum space $H_0$ is the sum of Kinetic Hamiltonian and Potential Hamiltonian.  
To construct the second quantized form of a Hamiltonian. You should construct the creation and annihilation operators from the basis explicitly. You should follow the EXAMPLE below to convert a Hamiltonian from the single-particle form to second-quantized form.  
Finally by "total", it means you need to take a summation over the momentum space position $k$.   
Return the second quantized form of the total noninteracting Hamiltonian.  

Use the following conventions for the symbols (You should also obey the conventions in all my previous prompts if you encounter undefined symbols. If you find it is never defined or has conflicts in the conventions, you should stop and let me know):  
$f\left( {\bf k} \right) = e^{ i k_y a / \sqrt{3} } \left( 1 + 2 e^{-i 3 k_{y} a / 2\sqrt{3}}  
                                       \cos \left(  \frac{k_x a}{2} \right)    \right)$, where $a = 2.46 \AA$.
$\gamma_0 = 3.12$ eV, $\gamma_1 = 0.377$ eV,  $\gamma_2 = 0.01$ eV,  $\gamma_3 = 0.3$ eV.
$\gamma_N = \gamma_N^{0} \exp(- \left| {\bf k} - {\bf K}^{(\prime)} \right| / k_r)$, where $k_r = \gamma_1 / \hbar \upsilon_F = 0.0573 \AA^{-1}$.

# Convert from single-particle to second-quantized form, return in summation (expand the matrix)
You will be instructed to expand the second-quantized form Hamiltonian ${H}_0$ using $\gamma$ and $f$ as matrix elements and basis respectively. You should follow the EXAMPLE below to expand the Hamiltonian.  
You should use any previous knowledge to simplify it. For example, if any term of $\gamma$ is zero, you should remove it from the summation.
Return the expanded form of ${H}_0$ after simplification.  

Use the following conventions for the symbols (You should also obey the conventions in all my previous prompts if you encounter undefined symbols. If you find it is never defined or has conflicts in the conventions, you should stop and let me know):  
$f\left( {\bf k} \right) = e^{ i k_y a / \sqrt{3} } \left( 1 + 2 e^{-i 3 k_{y} a / 2\sqrt{3}}  
                                       \cos \left(  \frac{k_x a}{2} \right)    \right)$, where $a = 2.46 \AA$.
$\gamma_0 = 3.12$ eV, $\gamma_1 = 0.377$ eV,  $\gamma_2 = 0.01$ eV,  $\gamma_3 = 0.3$ eV.
$\gamma_N = \gamma_N^{0} \exp(- \left| {\bf k} - {\bf K}^{(\prime)} \right| / k_r)$, where $k_r = \gamma_1 / \hbar \upsilon_F = 0.0573 \AA^{-1}$.

# Construct interaction Hamiltonian (momentum space)
You will be instructed to construct the interaction part of the Hamiltonian $V_{HF}$ in the momentum space.  
The interaction Hamiltonian is a product of four parts.
The first part is the product of four operators with two creation and two annihilation operators following the normal order, namely, creation operators are before annihilation operators. You should follow the order of $1,2,2,1$ for the $\lambda$ and $\lambda^{\prime}$, and $1,2,3,4$ for the ${\bf k}$. 
The second part is the constraint of total momentum conservation, namely the total momentum of all creation operators should be the same as that of all annihilation operators.  
The third part is the interaction form. You should use $U_H^{\lambda \lambda^{\prime}}$ and $U_{X}^{\lambda \lambda'}$ with $V(q)=U_H^{l l^{\prime}}$ and $U_X^{l \, l^{\prime}} \left( {\bf q} \right)$, where $q$ is the transferred total momentum between a creation operator and an annihilation operator with the same $\lambda$, namely $q={\bf k}^{\prime} - {\bf k}$.  
The fourth part is the normalization factor, you should use $\frac{1}{A}$ here.
Finally, the summation should be running over all $\lambda$ and ${\bf k}$
Return the interaction term $V_{HF}$ in terms of $c^{\dag}_{{\bf k} \lambda}$, $c_{{\bf k} \lambda}$ and $V(q)$ (with $q$ expressed in terms of ${\bf k}$).  

Use the following conventions for the symbols (You should also obey the conventions in all my previous prompts if you encounter undefined symbols. If you find it is never defined or has conflicts in the conventions, you should stop and let me know):  
$c^{\dag}_{{\bf k} \lambda}$, $c_{{\bf k} \lambda}$ are Bloch state creation and annihilation operators, and $\lambda = (l,\sigma)$ lumps lattice and spin indices. The Hartree and Exchange Coulomb integrals in Eq.(~\ref{hfgen}), $U_H^{l l^{\prime}}$ and $U_X^{l \, l^{\prime}} \left( {\bf q} \right)$ involve sums over reciprocal lattice vectors ${\bf G}$. In these equations ${\bf s}_l$ is the (2D projection of the) position of the sublattice in the unit cell.

# Wick's theorem
You will be instructed to perform a Hartree-Fock approximation to expand the interaction term, $V_{HF}$.  
You should use Wick's theorem to expand the four-fermion term in $V_{HF}$ into quadratic terms. You should strictly follow the EXAMPLE below to expand using Wick's theorem, select the correct EXAMPLE by noticing the order of four-term product with and without ${{}}^\dagger$, and be extremely cautious about the order of the index and sign before each term.  
You should only preserve the normal terms. Here, the normal terms mean the product of a creation operator and an annihilation operator.  
Return the expanded interaction term after Hartree-Fock approximation as $V_{HF}$.

Use the following conventions for the symbols (You should also obey the conventions in all my previous prompts if you encounter undefined symbols. If you find it is never defined or has conflicts in the conventions, you should stop and let me know):  
$c^{\dag}_{{\bf k} \lambda}$, $c_{{\bf k} \lambda}$ are Bloch state creation and annihilation operators, and $\lambda = (l,\sigma)$ lumps lattice and spin indices. The Hartree and Exchange Coulomb integrals in Eq.(~\ref{hfgen}), $U_H^{l l^{\prime}}$ and $U_X^{l \, l^{\prime}} \left( {\bf q} \right)$ involve sums over reciprocal lattice vectors ${\bf G}$. In these equations ${\bf s}_l$ is the (2D projection of the) position of the sublattice in the unit cell.

# Extract quadratic term
You will be instructed to extract the quadratic terms in the Hartree-Fock term, denoted as $V_{HF}$.  
The quadratic terms mean terms that are proportional to $c^{\dag}_{{\bf k} \lambda} c_{{\bf k} \lambda}$ and $c^{\dag}_{{\bf k} \lambda} c_{{\bf k} \lambda^{\prime}}$, which excludes terms that are solely expectations or products of expectations.  
You should only preserve the quadratic terms in $V_{HF}$, denoted as $V_{HF}^{(2)}$.  
Return $V_{HF}^{(2)}$.  

Use the following conventions for the symbols (You should also obey the conventions in all my previous prompts if you encounter undefined symbols. If you find it is never defined or has conflicts in the conventions, you should stop and let me know):  
$c^{\dag}_{{\bf k} \lambda}$ and $c_{{\bf k} \lambda}$ are Bloch state creation and annihilation operators, and $\lambda = (l,\sigma)$ lumps lattice and spin indices. The Hartree and Exchange Coulomb integrals in Eq.(~\ref{hfgen}), denoted as $U_H^{l l^{\prime}}$ and $U_X^{l \, l^{\prime}} \left( {\bf q} \right)$, involve sums over reciprocal lattice vectors ${\bf G}$. In these equations ${\bf s}_l$ is the (2D projection of the) position of the sublattice in the unit cell.

# Swap the index to combine Hartree and Fock terms
You will be instructed to simplify the quadratic term $V_{HF}$ through relabeling the index to combine the two Hartree/Fock term into one Hartree/Fock term.  
The logic is that the expected value $\left<  c^{\dag}_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} c_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} \right>$ in the first Hartree term $U_H^{\lambda \lambda^{\prime}}$ has the same form as the quadratic operators in the second Hartree term $U_{X}^{\lambda \lambda'}$, and vice versa. The same applies to the Fock term.  
This means, if you relabel the index by swapping the index in the "expected value" and "quadratic operators" in the second Hartree term, you can make the second Hartree term look identical to the first Hartree term, as long as $V(q)=V(-q)$, which is naturally satisfied in Coulomb interaction. You should follow the EXAMPLE below to simplify it through relabeling the index.  
You should perform this trick of "relabeling the index" for both two Hartree terms and two Fock terms to reduce them to one Hartree term, and one Fock term.  
Return the simplified $V_{HF}$ which reduces from four terms (two Hartree and two Fock terms) to only two terms (one Hartree and one Fock term).

# Reduce momentum in Hartree term (momentum in BZ + reciprocal lattice)
You will be instructed to simplify the Hartree term in $V_{HF}$ by reducing the momentum inside the expected value $\left<  c^{\dag}_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} c_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} \right>$.  
The expected value $\left<  c^{\dag}_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} c_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} \right>$ is only nonzero when the two momenta ${\bf k}^{\prime}$ are the same, namely, $\left<  c^{\dag}_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} c_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} \right> \neq 0$.  
You should use the property of Kronecker delta function $\delta_{{{\bf k}^{\prime},{\bf k}^{\prime}}}$ to reduce one momentum ${\bf k}^{\prime}$ but not $c_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}}$.
Once you reduce one momentum inside the expected value $\left<  c^{\dag}_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} c_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} \right>$. You will also notice the total momentum conservation will reduce another momentum in the quadratic term. Therefore, you should end up with only two momenta left in the summation.  
You should follow the EXAMPLE below to reduce one momentum in the Hartree term, and another momentum in the quadratic term.  
Return the final simplified Hartree term $V_{HF}$.

# Reduce momentum in Fock term (momentum in BZ + reciprocal lattice)
You will be instructed to simplify the Fock term in $V_{HF}$ by reducing the momentum inside the expected value $\left<  c^{\dag}_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} c_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} \right>$ and $\left<  c^{\dag}_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} c_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda} \right>$.  
The expected value $\left<  c^{\dag}_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} c_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} \right>$ and $\left<  c^{\dag}_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}} c_{{\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda} \right>$ is only nonzero when the two momenta ${\bf k}^{\prime}$ are the same, namely, ${\bf k}^{\prime} = {\bf k}$.  
You should use the property of Kronecker delta function $\delta_{{k_i,k_j}}$ to reduce one momentum ${\bf k}^{\prime}$ but not ${\bf k}$.  
Once you reduce one momentum inside the expected value $\langle\dots\rangle$. You will also notice the total momentum conservation will reduce another momentum in the quadratic term. Therefore, you should end up with only two momenta left in the summation.
You should follow the EXAMPLE below to reduce one momentum in the Fock term, and another momentum in the quadratic term.    
Return the final simplified Fock term $V_{HF}$.

# Combine the Hartree and Fock term
You will now be instructed to combine the Hartree term $U_H^{\lambda \lambda^{\prime}}$ and the Fock term $U_{X}^{\lambda \lambda'}$.  
You should perform the same trick of relabeling the index in the Fock term to make the quadratic operators in the Fock term the same as those in the Hartree term. The relabeling should be done with a swap : ${\bf k}^{\prime} \lambda^{\prime}$ with ${\bf k} \lambda$.
You should add them, relabel the index in Fock term, and simply their sum. 
Return the final sum of Hartree and Fock term.